Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
I hope you're enjoying the course so far.
And today we're talking about action the selection policies.
All right.
Let's dive straight into it.
Previously we talked about adding a neural network to our simple learning and so far we are getting
quite into deep learning.
We've talked about the learning part quite a bit including adding some elements to it.
And today we're talking about this part we're talking about the acting.
So let's have a look.
So here we've got what we discussed about acting that once you input the values the parameters or the
vector describing the state the agent is currently in that environment then that is after all the learning
is done or even before the learning is done.
Basically we get all the q values.
So we're not interested in the learning right now we insist on acting so once we have these key values
how do we understand which one we need to use.
Well if you think about it.
Q values are simply the predictions for the cube.
So as we did in the simple learning algorithm what did we do we just selected the one with the best
of the highest value.
Once we have the one with the highest IQ value we just take that action because it just brings us the
highest value and that we know that Duval's calculus is immediate reward that we expect to receive Plus
the DK factor or times of value.
The next day.
And it's a recursive calculation so why not why wouldn't you take the best value.
That's kind of the end of it.
But as you can see here it's not as simple here we're using a soft max function and this is where we're
going to talk about action selection policies.
So here in reality we don't have to have just a soft max function.
We can have different action selection policies.
For example we've got Epsilon greedy Epsilon's soft and we've got the soft Max and those are kind of
like the most commonly used action selection policies of course there are others for instance the most
basic one is a very simple actions.
Suppose you just select the best the one with the highest Q value.
But why doesn't that action pulse you fly and why do we have different types of action pulse action
selection pulls.
Well it all boils down to exploration versus exploitation.
And that is the core of reinforcement learning because we already talked about this a little bit that
your agent when it's operating in an environment it might predict certain Q values which might be good
and it might turn out great it might turn out that those valves are bad and will be forced to explore.
So if we for instance in this case predict that Q2 is the best one and then it takes Q To takes action
too and it is so from here it takes action too.
And then it gets it gets a very negative reward.
Then the environment is forcing the agent to go and explode because now he's going to learn that oh
actually I thought Q2 was going to be very good but it turned out very bad.
So the results are not very bad.
So the networks can update itself so next time he's in the state he's going to probably eat my soldiers
get to it.
You know like if it was a very very favorable so you might think that that's like you know you might
need a couple of times a couple of penalties or punishments in order to learn that future is about action.
But maybe he'll already soon learn that I'm going to take a different action and take the action because
now it has the best value.
So sometimes the environment forces the agent to take different to explore different actions.
But sometimes the agent might get it find itself stuck in a local maximum it might find that it followed
through through its initial exploration and found that this is a pretty cool action like I'm going to
go right here.
And that d'esprit collection.
But the problem is that it thinks is the best action simply because it hasn't explored is explored going
up his nose or going left is explore going right but it hasn't explored going down from that specific
state that it's in and now that it's kind of like biased towards this action and thinks good action
is going to keep taking it is going to keep getting.
He's going to keep taking is actually going to keep getting a good reward.
But what if this action would have been even better if this action would have been so much better that
if it knew about this action it would actually switch to this action but because it got stuck in a local
maximum is getting these good rewards is just going to be reinforced.
This is going to keep reinforcing itself that or the violence going to reinforce it that this is a good
action to take keep doing that.
But the reality is that there's this other action that it hasn't found yet or hasn't even explored that
would have been much better as a what do you want to do is we want to come up with an actual selection
policy that allows our agent not to get stuck in a local maximum.
Yes it's important to you know keep doing the good actions that's the exploitation part.
We won't exploit what we've found.
But at the same time we still want to explore we never want to stop exploring as like in life you never
want to stop learning you stop learning you die.
That's There's a saying like that that when you're not growing you're dying or something.
So you want to keep learning and your agent wants to keep learning.
And that's where these action selection policies come in.
So we've got three you listed here so the first one is excellent.
Really it's a very simple one it sounds pretty complex in the sense that like it's got a cool name and
usually things with surgical names are complex.
It's actually not.
So basically what it does is it will select the one with the best Q value and epsilon like Epsilon 3
you might hear in other places it's just like selection policy.
So in this case we're using it too slick.
So our out of our cube values are by action sales like the one with the highest Q value all the time
except for Epsilon percent of the time.
So for instance if you set epsilon to 10 percent then you're going towards 0.1 than 10 percent of the
time that the action is going to be selected at random.
So 90 percent of the time you're still going to be selecting the best action based on the highest value.
But 10 percent of the time is going to be selecting a random action uniform it is going to be absolutely
randomly taking an action or if you set epsilon to zero point five for 0.05.
That means that 95 percent of the time the agent is going to be taking the action with the highest value
but 5 percent of the time it's still going to be selecting and a random action.
So it's going to be going out there and exploring.
So epsilons solved is a very similar way the way that that's kind of like why it's called Epsilon greedy
because then you're greedily selecting the action the good action except for that little episode.
Some of the time.
So the lower the abseil they'll lower the Lepp Epsilon the more greedily you're selecting that kind
of the action that is the optimal action and the less you're leaving the less chances you leaving for
exploration.
Epsilon soft is the opposite.
So basically you're selecting at random you're selecting one minus Epsilon cent of the time so if you
Epsilon's like 0.1 to 10 percent then only 10 percent of the time you're taking this action.
And 90 percent of the time you're selecting a random action.
So very very simple just inverted algorithms and a soft Max is kind of like the next step from or it's
it's a more advanced version I would say over epsilon of epsilon greedy algorithm although they both
have merit and they both have place where we want to be using self-mastery in our coding in or practical
sort of thing.
So that's what we're going to talk in a bit more detail about soft max.
So let's have a look.
So let's move on to soft next hopefully.
It's pretty clear about Epson's greedy.
It's a pretty straightforward algorithm.
Select this one.
Most of the time except for sometimes go and explore.
And now we also see why it's important to do that exploration so that we don't end up in local maximums
in our in our optimization process so we're going to look a bit more about soft Max.
There's a tutorial on soft Max at the end of the course.
I think it's an annex number two where we talk about the concept behind sauf maxims to refresh a little
bit here so there we're talking about conflictual neural networks and by the way we're all going to
be covering convolutional we're not covering evolution neural networks in this section of the course
in this section we're still using a vector.
But in the next section of the course when we're we're creating an AI to play Doom we are going to be
using convolutional neural network so it could be beneficial for you to look at in relational neural
networks and then take the soft max function or you can learn a bit more Bazoft Max after you take the
convolutional neural networks and of course later on.
But here's a quick refresher So here we go.
Can relational neural network which decides whether it's a dog or cat.
So here we've got the voting process between these neurons and this one that says that it's it's got
the features you know the fluffy ears.
What's the point to point that face type of thing.
And the kind of features that are the types of eyes the eye with eyes look all these features that belong
to dogs so it's a 95 percent chance that it's a dog and the 5 percent chance that cat.
But the question is how did we get in that Tauriel we're talking about how did we get these values to
add up to one.
Well whatever convolutional all our whole neural networks are the can relational neural network plus
the fully connected Lares whatever it's bad out whatever the values it is about.
We apply a soft next function here.
This is where we introduced and found a formula for soft next function.
Is what it looks like.
And then we got these values.
And so basically that's a quick refresher.
This is the formula for the soft knocks.
It's what it does is it takes however many outputs you have doesn't matter.
It will take them and it will squash them all into values between 0 and 1 regardless of how big they
are.
It's for me you can see that there's a total sum at the bottom so this is going to be zero bitches are
in one.
And also the all these values are going to add up to one always.
And so that's that's very beneficial for us because when we're using the soft max function what happens
is we get these new values we select this best value but in reality what happens is these values that
we get there are actual numbers right.
So this is some kind of numbers.
They don't have to all add up to one and it's twins are in one.
Just some numbers.
But when we apply soft Max we don't just select the best one we actually get numbers like that so we
get our numbers in the range between 0 and 1 and that are also that also add up to 1.
And so what other thing do we know that up to one.
Well probabilities we know that probabilities always have to add up to 1 so that is why we can say here
we've got key values but here all of a sudden we've got soft or we've got probabilities so we can say
that the likelihood of this being the best action is 90 percent.
This lesbian bisexual is 5 percent 2 percent 3 percent because we know the higher your q value the better
the action.
So if we squash them to 0 to 1 then these become probabilities and we can deal with them as such.
And therefore now is when the action is selected and that's how we come up with Q2.
But if you look at it closely this isn't a strict 100 percent and these are not 0 percent.
So this is a 5 percent to 3 percent.
So the the most natural way to apply the soft Max in order to preserve exploration in the algorithm
is to use these exact probabilities as how often we're going to be taking that action.
So these probabilities actually present the distribution all of these actions that we're taking so basically
soft Max makes it very easy for us to come up with a way to combine exploitation and exploration.
So the best the best action will always have the high probability because it has high value and therefore
here we're going to be just going to use these as our distribution.
We're going to say OK we're going to be taking Q2 90 percent of the time but 5 percent of the time we
still get to be taking Q1 and 2 percent of the time we get to 3 and 3 percent of the time we're going
to be taking Q4.
And the beauty here is also that as these values update as and as the agent goes through the network
more and more and more it becomes more familiar with with the environment and therefore these updates
so this value for instance might become like it might might ascertain that this value is actually less
or this actually is higher and so these probabilities will also change as an agent goes through.
So even though here we've got you to nobody is to say that sometimes 5 percent of the time to be more
precise we'll be selecting Q1 as the action to take and sometimes or action one will be taking action
one.
Sometimes we'll be taking action through a two action three two percent of the time and action for will
be taking about 3 percent.
So every action has a chance to play in this process as long as we have enough iterations and the agent
goes through lots and lots of times through these states that they're in.
And that's that's how this that's how any kind of deep learning algorithm works that you want to do
this many many times so that you learn from experience and therefore as you can see here it's a very
natural transition to.
We're not just randomly like an Epson angry algorithm and not just randomly selecting the actions we're
selecting them based on their soft max values which makes it makes it like has some logic behind it
not just not just that random 10 percent of the time we're selecting a random action but there's some
logic behind how we're doing it and based on their values that we've explored.
And so that's the action selection policy that we're going to be using in this course.
You're welcome to definitely check out the Ebsen greedy action section Polsce if you like.
But we're going to be predominately using the soft Max action section policy and I've got an interesting
reading for you.
So this is called adaptive Epsilon greedy exploration in reinforcement learning based on value differences.
It's a 2010 article and it's interesting because Mike Michel I'm not sure how to pronounce and Michelle
and Miquel toxic introduces a different type of Algren's so and adjusted only greedy algorithm and called
the VDB VDB algorithm or epsilon greedy VDB algorithm you can see it over here.
And he actually compares compares it to the Ebsen greedy and soft Max and it's an abseil agree algorithm
which basically the main idea behind it is to adjust the value of epsilon depending on the state the
agent is in.
So if if the agent is very certain about the it there and then Epsilon's should be smaller so they should
be less exploration if the agent is uncertain.
Epson's should be higher should be more expression.
So it is a 2010 article.
I'm not sure if it's if this new proposed algorithm is widely used or is as been accepted in the community
or or if artificial Times has moved kind of away from this this suggestion but nevertheless it will
definitely help you reinforce your knowledge about action selection policies which we discussed the
Epsom ingredient the soft Naxal help you.
Going to put you in by sight and also see in which direction people actually think when they want to
improve artificial intelligence so if you're ever planning on creating really interesting algorithms
that are pushing the edge of an artificial intelligence and pushing the envelope in this space then
this could be a good way for you to see in which direction people think sometimes when they're trying
to improve the norms of artificial intelligence or the norms that existed back then in 2010.
So there we go.
Hopefully you enjoyed today's tutorial about the action selection policies and we learned about abseil
greedy Epsilon soft and the soft Macs and now you are even more prepared for the practical side of things.
And on that note I'll look for CNN.
And until then enjoy AI.